FireAxe Upstream (#1732)
firesim/firesim: docs/Advanced-Usage/FireAxe-Partitioning-onto-Multiple-FPGAs/FireAxe-Overview.rst

FireAxe Overview
=============================================

Since the initial release of FireSim, the proliferation of open hardware IP has
enabled researchers to generate new SoC configurations that no longer fit in a
single FPGA. FireAxe builds on top of FireSim to enable *partitioning of large
designs onto multiple FPGAs*, overcoming the single-FPGA limitation for monolithic RTL designs.

Partition Modes
==================

> FireAxe provides users with three options (modes) to perform partitioning : exact-mode, fast-mode and the NoC-partition-mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
FireAxe provides users with three options (modes) to perform partitioning: exact-mode, fast-mode, and the NoC-partition-mode.
```

These options are passed on to the compiler which will generate the correct circuitry
to deal with the odd things that happen on the partition interface.
A more detailed explanation about the circuitry and the partition modes are provided in
`the FireAxe paper <https://joonho3020.github.io/assets/ISCA2024-FireAxe.pdf>`_.
However, if you just want to use FireAxe, the below explanations are sufficient
for you to get started.

Exact-Mode
-----------
In the exact-mode, users can choose the modules to partition out and place on separate FPGAs.
The partitioned simulation will behave *exactly* the same as when running the target on a software RTL simulator.

> This is usesful when the partition boundary is not latency insensitive (i.e. the interface is not ready-valid interface nor credit based)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is useful when the partition boundary is not latency insensitive (i.e. the interface is not ready-valid interface nor credit-based)
```

FireAxe Overview
=============================================

Since the initial release of FireSim, the proliferation of open hardware IP has
enabled researchers to generate new SoC configurations that no longer fit in a
single FPGA. FireAxe builds on top of FireSim to enable *partitioning of large
designs onto multiple FPGAs*, overcoming the single-FPGA limitation for monolithic RTL designs.

Partition Modes
==================

> FireSim uses host-decoupling to control the advancement of the simulator, and

Reviewer: Why is this sentence necessary, I would just get into the modes and not mention that there are "weird" things (you can leave that to the paper)

this causes weird things to happen when the design is partitioned across multiple FPGAs.
FireAxe provides users with three options (modes) to perform partitioning : exact-mode, fast-mode and the NoC-partition-mode.
These options are passed on to the compiler which will generate the correct circuitry
to deal with the odd things that happen on the partition interface.
A more detailed explanation about the circuitry and the partition modes are provided in
`the FireAxe paper <https://joonho3020.github.io/assets/ISCA2024-FireAxe.pdf>`_.
However, if you just want to use FireAxe, the below explanations are sufficient
for you to get started.

Exact-Mode
-----------
In the exact-mode, users can choose the modules to partition out and place on separate FPGAs.
The partitioned simulation will behave *exactly* the same as when running the target on a software RTL simulator.
This is usesful when the partition boundary is not latency insensitive (i.e. the interface is not ready-valid interface nor credit based)
and when the boundary contains combinational logic running through it.

> Example modules that can be partitioned out are RoCC accelerators as the ports to access the
> page-table-walker boundaries are combinationally dependent to each other.
> However, when running baremetal tests, address translations are unnecessary
> and users can use the fast-mode to partition out RoCC accelerators.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An example of a module that can be partitioned out using the exact-mode is a RoCC accelerator since the ports to access the
page-table-walker boundaries are combinationally dependent to each other.
```

Fast-Mode
----------
When the partition boundary is latency insensitive (i.e., the interface is ready-valid or credit based),
you can use the fast-mode to perform partitioned simulations.

> Similarily as in the exact-mode, users can choose the modules to partition out.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similar to exact-mode, users can choose the modules to partition out.
```

> However, in the fast-mode, it provides higher simulation throughput by trading

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, fast-mode provides higher simulation throughput by trading
```

off simulation accuracy with performance. By injecting a single cycle of latency
on the partition boundary, simulated design will run nearly 2x faster than the exact-mode.

Example modules that can be partitioned out are core tiles as the tile to bus
connections are ready-valid and the interrupt signals are also latency insensitive.
In practice, adding a cycle of latency on the partition boundary has nearly zero accuracy implications.

NoC-Partition-Mode
------------------
In the NoC partition mode, we exploit the fact that the NoC router boundaries are latency insensitive (credit based).
Users simply has to specify the router nodes to be grouped together and the compiler will automatically group the modules

> to partition out with the selected routers. The NoC-partition-mode works only when partitioning tiles out.

Reviewer: Why is only tiles a limitation? Why can't you export out say the nodes of the cache?

Author: The cache is difficult to partition out as it is connected to the `mbus` which complicates things.
Tiles are a reasonable target as it is the most resource consuming part of the design, and it is "the" module that you increase when you build scale up chips.
Also, the bounds the complexity of the NoC partitioning pass which is already quite complicated.

Supported Platforms
=====================

> As all FireSim simulations, FireAxe can be run on both F1 and local FPGAs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Like all FireSim simulations, FireAxe can be run on both F1 and local FPGAs.
```

EC2 F1
-------
To improve simulation performance on AWS EC2 F1 cloud FPGAs, we utilize their
direct peer-to-peer inter-FPGA PCIe communication mechanism to reduce token
exchange latency `AWS PCIe Peer to Peer Guides <https://github.com/awslabs/aws-fpga-app-notes/tree/master/Using-PCIe-Peer2Peer>`_.

> The f1.16xlarge and f1.4xlarge instances each contain multiple FPGAs(8 or 2 respectively)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The f1.16xlarge and f1.4xlarge instances each contain multiple FPGAs (8 or 2 respectively)
```

that can send and receive AXI4 transactions directly to/from one another without

> going through the host. This provides the simulator up to 1MHz target frequency.

Reviewer: "1MHz simulated frequency"?

Reviewer: Ditto for below.
